In this video, I will
show you how you can
model whole sentences using
n-gram probabilities.
This will allow us later
to generate some text.
Let's find the probability
of a sentence,
or an entire sequence of words.
How would you calculate the
probability of the sentence?
The teacher drinks tea.
To get started, let's refresh
your memory of the conditional
probability in chain rule.
Here, the conditional
probability
is a probability of word B.
If word A appeared
just before B,
you can express the rule for
the conditional
probability in terms of
the joints probability
of A and B,
which is B of A, B.
The probability of B given
A is equal to the probability of
A and B divided by
the probability of A.
You can rearrange this row so
the probability of
A and B is equal to
the probability of A times
the probability of B given A.
This can be generalized
to the chain rule,
which describes the
joint probability
of longer sequences.
The probability of a sentence
with word A followed by word B,
followed by word C
and word D is equal
to the probability
of word A times
the probability of B
given word A times
the probability of word C given
the word A followed by B,
times the probability of
word D given by words
A followed by B,
followed by C. That
was a long one.
But it should make
intuitive sense
as your eyes follow
along the equation.
The probability of each
successive word is the product of
the probabilities of all words
that came before it
in the sequence.
You can now apply the
chain rule to answer
your question about the
probability of the sentence,
"The teacher drinks tea."
The probability of the sentence,
the teacher drinks tea is
equal to the probability of
B times the probability of
teacher given D times the
probability of drinks,
given the teacher times
the probability of tea
given the teacher drinks.
You've seen the ideal scenario
where you actually
have enough data
in the training corpus to
calculate all of
these probabilities.
However, this direct approach to
sequence probability
has its limitations.
Since natural language
is highly variable,
your queries sentence
and even longer parts of
your sentence are very
unlikely to appear in
the training corpus.
Let's use the chain rule of
probability for the sentence,
the teacher drinks tea.
The formula would
look like this.
For the final term,
look for the counts of
both the input sentence,
the teacher drinks tea,
and its prefix, the
teacher drinks.
Since neither of them is likely
to exist in the training corpus,
their counts are zero.
The formula for
the probability of
the entire sentence can't give
a probability estimates
in this situation.
As a sentence gets longer,
the likelihood that's
more and more words
will occur next to each
other in this exact order,
becomes smaller and smaller,
so the likelihood that the
teacher drinks appears
in the corpus is smaller than
the probability of
the word drinks.
What if instead of looking
for all the words before tea,
you just consider
the previous word,
which is drinks in this case.
This is what those
calculations would look like.
The probability of
teacher given D,
the probability of
drinks given teacher,
and the probability
of tea given drinks.
If you multiply these together,
you'd get an approximation
of the whole sentence.
The teacher drinks tea.
Once the bigram
approximation is applied,
the formula to estimate
the sentence
probability simplified.
Now it's the product of
conditional
probabilities of words
and their immediate
predecessors.
In other words, the product
of the probabilities of bigrams.
You just apply the
Markov assumption.
Instead of looking
for other words,
you just looked at
one previous word.
You also could have considered
the two previous words,
or any n number of
previous words.
The Markov assumption states
that the probability of
each word depends only
on its limited history
of length n. It ignores
all the words that
came before it specified
length n. For bigrams,
you approximate the
conditional probability of
a word w_n given the history
w_1 to w_n minus one,
by the conditional
probability of the word w_n,
given word w_n minus 1.
That means you only need to
look at the previous word.
With n grams,
you only look at n minus
1 previous words when
calculating the
conditional probability
in the chain rule.
The bigram formula to estimate
the sentence probability is now
the product of
conditional probabilities
of the words and their
immediate predecessors.
As you may recall,
this is in contrast
with Naive Bayes,
where you approximated
census probability
without considering
any word history.
The first term of the
bigram formula relies on
the unigram probability of
the first word in the sentence.
You now know how to
compute the probability of
a sentence given
n-gram probabilities.
Next, I'll show
you how to compute
these n-gram probabilities
from a corpus.